[Music]
i don't know who i'm writing this to or
why
it's the end of the world after all so
everybody knows all i have to say anyway
but somehow i feel that i have to tell
this to someone
so it began as slight jolts from under
the ground nobody really paid attention
to them
especially in seismically active regions
people thought these were just minor
earthquakes they talked about them in
the news
but only few actually cared my parents
i was only 12 back then were among those
who did
but let's save it for later in just a
year the jolts became much stronger and
more frequent
in some areas they turned into
full-fledged earthquakes
doing a lot of damage to cities and
villages where still
previously dormant volcanoes began
waking up
all over the world people started
raising alarm
scientists talked a lot about climate
change and impact of humankind
but it was obvious nobody really had any
definitive answers
it didn't get any better either as
months went by
earthquakes and volcano eruptions
gradually grew in power and frequency
at first only one major natural disaster
per month was reported
but in two more years there were at
least four of them
occurring within the same period in
every corner of the world
even the normally calm regions suffered
from quakes and resulting tsunamis
people tried to adapt but it was all
unfolding too
fast for us to react adequately all we
had left to do
was to learn to be always ready to move
out from our homes
and run we stopped building big and
sturdy apartment buildings
opting for lightweight 3d printed houses
they were easily destroyed but easily
built too
which was a huge advantage items of
luxury were rapidly losing their value
while on the other hand mobile
electronics and survival tools grew in
price
people began really appreciating what
they had
and each other neighbors were helping
one another and whole
towns unified their efforts to build
strong communities
and prepare for the worst together and
the worst came sooner than we expected
one day the whole planet was shaken in
one titanic earthquake
we thought it was the end for us all
because the ground went on shaking for
hours
and didn't cease until the next day and
then
came reports from the atlantic coast the
ocean receded
leaving vast swathes of naked sand and
corals
research teams on helicopters went to
learn what caused this cataclysm
and found the unthinkable there was an
enormous
whirlpool in the middle of the atlantic
hundreds of times bigger than the
largest sinkhole in the world
the water from the ocean was gushing
down the gigantic drain
as if someone pulled the plug on the
bottom
in a sense that was exactly what
happened tectonic plates beneath the
atlantic came apart
forming a huge gap in the bottom boiling
magma poured out
but was extinguished by the overwhelming
mass of water
which then rushed down into the abyss it
went away so quickly
that the overall water level fell in a
matter of hours
the event was dubbed the great atlantic
rift but it was still
only the beginning with the rising
frequency of earthquakes and eruptions
wind patterns around the world changed
resulting in massive hurricanes
it seemed the whole planet was against
its inhabitants
but like i said earlier my parents were
the ones who cared
and they had to know the reason they
were geologists at the international
space
agency which continued its work even
through all the cataclysms
and it was them who came to the
distressing conclusion
for some unknown reason the earth had
started to grow
in size it would explain everything
the ever more frequent earthquakes were
caused by tectonic plates come into
motion
the flowing magma was pushed from the
mantle up towards the crust
and burst onto the surface in places
suited exactly for that
volcanoes and that meant there would be
other events like the great atlantic
rift
only even more catastrophic after
another year
we moved to live in the agency along
with the families of other employees and
research workers
the buildings were made to withstand
almost anything so
we were protected from the horrors of
the outside
we took in as many people as we could
but of course
it wasn't nearly enough millions more
were left to their own devices
and we could only hope that everyone was
safe
by that time as scientists estimated the
planet had already grown
one and a half times its original size
and by the looks of it
the rate at which it ballooned was
growing in another year of our bunkered
life
we witnessed it grow twice again rifts
even bigger than the one in the atlantic
popped up in different parts of the
world causing widespread chaos
everyone went to live underground where
it was relatively safe
communications between continents were
all but lost
and all we learned about the situation
above was from
daring expeditions by scientists the
planet was ravaged by quakes
volcanic eruptions tsunamis and
hurricanes
happening almost daily now life on the
surface
was virtually impossible it was then
that the joint team of researchers and
engineers
suddenly came out with the solution
they'd been working on for the last five
years
they called it the ark it turned out
several teams agreed to build huge
spaceships to evacuate humankind
along with a surviving animal fish and
insect species
in case the earth comes apart and the
time they'd feared
finally came everyone in the agency's
buildings
including me and my parents were
escorted to an enormous hall
where one of the arks was kept all other
people from the continent who managed to
come were also there
we were given personal ids and then
allowed to board
each person was allocated a separate
capsule that was to keep us hibernating
for the whole time of space travel
we were told we were the colonists the
pioneers in space settlement
we were going to mars and that's how i
ended up here
where i'm riding all this we
successfully boarded the ark and were
put to sleep in our capsules
when i woke up we were already landing
i won't bore you with the details of
terraforming and settling in our new
home
at first we all wore special suits
equipped with oxygen tanks
but soon enough we built a dome with
artificial atmosphere
that started making the territory
suitable for living both for us
and for the animals we brought since
then
10 years have passed already we're
feeling almost at home on the red
planet which isn't really red anymore
there are lush
forests and big cities sprawling all
around
mars is inactive so there are no
earthquakes or hurricanes here
life is pretty peaceful although it's as
busy as can be
with all the work that still has to be
done but
all this time we've all been anxiously
watching our home planet grow in size
at first it was barely visible in the
night sky
but as months passed it became more and
more apparent
until one day it could be viewed in some
detail with an
unaided eye today it's the size of the
moon in our skies
invisible even in the light of day the
sun is much smaller from here than it
was seen from earth
so basically our home planet is now
larger than its star
through telescopes we can see its
surface covered in scars and fissures
dozens of times bigger than the grand
canyon there are no more seas and oceans
and continents drifted far apart the
once green and blue and welcoming world
is now a barren wasteland boiling with
fire and brimstone
the sun isn't helping it either when the
planet was small
the star bathed it in its light in
warmth giving it life and energy
now when earth is a hundred times larger
the sun
is scorching its surface and burning off
the remnants of its atmosphere
but even that's not all with the size
the gravity has grown too
being so big and massive earth has
collided with the moon
virtually eating it up venus which was
similar to the previous earth
started to be tugged toward the suddenly
grown planet
and was soon to run into it as well and
earth itself
is slowly gravitating toward the sun
scientists say that one day
it would first consume both venus and
mercury and then get burned completely
in the sun's sea
wow all i can hope now is to never see
it with my own eyes